Think about a
difficult conversation
you've been avoiding.
It might be with your boss.
It might be with an
employee, or a coworker.
You might be waking up in
the middle of the night,
thinking about this conversation
that you would like to have
but aren't having.
Nobody really likes conflict.
The tendency is to put walls up.
And the walls usually are
around judgment and fear.
I want to keep you away, and
I want to keep myself safe.
We are always giving
and receiving energy,
as human beings.
In a difficult conversation,
that energy gets stuck.
It gets stopped, because
I want you to hear me,
and you want me to hear you.
And nobody's listening.
This back and forth,
giving and receiving,
energy is where Aikido comes in.
Aikido.
It means the way of blending,
or harmonizing, with energy.
If you watch Aikido
closely, you'll
see that it's not
really fighting.
Our goal is to render the attack
harmless, without harming;
to manage to keep
ourselves safe,
but also to actually
protect the attacker.
We all practice verbal Aikido.
In life, we use our emotions
to either attack people--
to sort of become really
passive and limp--
or we can use that
power, that energy,
that emotion, our words,
our language to connect,
and to find out, and to learn.
When I'm in a
difficult conversation,
I want to be purposeful,
and conscious,
and present with
you, and with myself.
So that I don't have
any regrets later,
that I was out of
control, or unconscious,
or said something that
was not purposeful.
Conflict doesn't have
to be a negative thing.
It can be an opportunity.
It can be a teacher.
Conflict is the way that
we get to know each other,
that we get to know ourselves.